Update docker-compose-build.adoc (#6391)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/projects/gsoc/2023/projects/docker-compose-build.adoc

- gsoc2023
- doc
status: "Selected"
student: "ash-sxn"
mentors:
- "gounthar"
- "berviantoleo"
- "sbostandoust"
links:
    idea: "/projects/gsoc/2023/project-ideas/docker-compose-build/"
    Gitter: "https://matrix.to/#/#gsoc-2023-docker-quickstart:matrix.org"
    draft: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZpPihadYqpAvR20rxZkTD2SVpf34E6YMzg6opU6yHAg/edit?usp=sharing
    meeting: /projects/gsoc/2023/projects/docker-compose-build.adoc#office-hours
---

=== Abstract

> The project aims to simplify the use of Jenkins with Docker by creating easy-to-use Docker Compose files with suitable examples. Weekly testing with ci.jenkins.io and up-to-date documentation will be crucial, with the goal of enabling users to quickly spin up containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project aims to simplify the use of Jenkins with Docker by creating easy-to-use Docker Compose files as suitable examples on which new documentation will be based. Weekly testing with ci.jenkins.io and up-to-date documentation will be crucial, with the goal of enabling users to quickly spin up containers.
```

> The project aims to simplify the use of Jenkins with Docker by creating easy-to-use Docker Compose files as suitable examples on which new documentation will be based. Weekly testing with ci.jenkins.io and up-to-date documentation will be crucial, with the goal of enabling users to quickly spin up containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project aims to simplify the use of Jenkins with Docker by creating easy-to-use Docker Compose files as suitable examples on which new documentation will be based. Weekly testing with `ci.jenkins.io` and up-to-date documentation will be crucial, with the goal of enabling users to quickly spin up containers.
```

=== Rationale

> Currently The process of getting started with Jenkins with docker is too complex. The available documentation is also hard to understand making it challenging for new users to get started. We will use Docker Compose to make it easier for beginers and coustomizable for experienced users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently the quickstart process with Jenkins using the existing Docker examples is too complex. The available documentation is also hard to understand (due to its opaqueness) making it challenging for new users to get started. We will be using Docker Compose to make it easier for beginners to pick up and for experienced users to customize.
```

> Currently The process of getting started with Jenkins with docker is too complex. The available documentation is also hard to understand making it challenging for new users to get started. We will use Docker Compose to make it easier for beginers and coustomizable for experienced users

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently The process of getting started with Jenkins with docker is too complex. The available documentation is also hard to understand making it challenging for new users to get started. We will use Docker Compose to make it easier for beginners and customizable for experienced users
```

> Currently The process of getting started with Jenkins with docker is too complex. The available documentation is also hard to understand making it challenging for new users to get started. We will use Docker Compose to make it easier for beginners and customizable for experienced users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently the quickstart process with Jenkins using the existing Docker examples is too complex. The available documentation is also hard to understand (due to its opaqueness) making it challenging for new users to get started. We will be using Docker Compose to make it easier for beginners to pick up and for experienced users to customize.
```

=== Implementation

> Using Docker Compose to define and run a multi-container Docker application for Jenkins, simplifying the setup process. Automated Testing with a Jenkins Pipeline running on ci.jenkins.io, using a Jenkinsfile that checks the functionality of compose files. Keeping documentation up to date by using Pipeline Steps doc generator. Utilizing Gitpod for quick start, with a .gitpod.yml file that runs docker-compose commands and opens a preview of the Jenkins instance in Gitpod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using Docker Compose to define and run a multi-container Docker application for Jenkins, we can simplify the entire setup process. We will use automated testing in a Jenkins pipeline running on `ci.jenkins.io`, while using a `Jenkinsfile` to check the functionality of the Docker Compose files. We will also keep the documentation up to date by using Pipeline Steps documentation generator, as well as doing the appropriate updating/editing of the existing documentation Docker section. By utilizing Gitpod for quickstart, with a `.gitpod.yml` file that runs docker-compose commands, previews of the Jenkins instance in Gitpod can be made available quite readily.
```

=== Rationale

(to be described)
Currently the quickstart process with Jenkins using the existing Docker examples is too complex. The available documentation is also hard to understand (due to its opaqueness) making it challenging for new users to get started. We will be using Docker Compose to make it easier for beginners to pick up and for experienced users to customize.

=== Implementation
(to be described)
By using Docker Compose to define and run a multi-container Docker application for Jenkins, we can simplify the entire setup process. We will use automated testing in a Jenkins pipeline running on `ci.jenkins.io`, while using a `Jenkinsfile` to check the functionality of the Docker Compose files. We will also keep the documentation up to date by using Pipeline Steps documentation generator, as well as doing the appropriate updating/editing of the existing documentation Docker section. By utilizing Gitpod for quickstart, with a `.gitpod.yml` file that runs docker-compose commands, previews of the Jenkins instance in Gitpod can be made available quite readily.

=== Office hours

Details about the Office Hours (general or specific)

> === Links

Reviewer 3: Could you add a new section for the meeting notes?

The link will refer to this [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yij9OvM2_92My3vqjn6u8ABHjXcyy0a7O6oM30b6ctM/edit).

Author: added it

Reviewer 3: Thanks!
